# Code Review: Matthew Love & Ritu Shah

Our team started by reviewing all relevant classes and interfaces to gain a whole understanding of how the project was designed. Immediately, we noticed that the Command Design Pattern was utilized in order to implement class “commands” such as blurring, brightening, flipping, or rendering components of images. These commands were operated on in the RasterImageModel class where the known list of commands was stored. Looking at the design of the image, we noticed that the image was stored in memory as a list of lists of Pixel objects. These Pixel objects, either ARGBPixel or RGBPixel contained the RGB values, or in the case of an ARGBPixel, it contained the RGB and alpha pixel values. The explicit operations on images were conducted in the RasterImageModel class.

When considering the strengths and/or limitations of the provided code, we looked at the usage of the Command Design Pattern, and other designs within the provided code in order for the program to function properly. We also considered the different controllers, one for text-based controls, and the other for the GUI. Overall, the interfaces were flexible, the implementation was excellent, and the code was well documented. In reference to limitations for the code, we thought that the implemented commands for vertical and horizontal flip could have been combined into a singular command “flip” in order to prevent and reduce duplicate code within the design.

Through our efforts of reviewing our providers' classes, interfaces, test, and overall design, we determined that the code was well designed & followed the “closed for modification and open for extension” design principle. When implementing the mosaic operation for images, our team was able to easily implement these extensions to the original code through minor additions. These additions included: additions to a few interfaces for new methods, the addition of a new command “Mosaic”, the operation implemented within the RasterImageModel, and lastly the operations added to the text & view controllers. None of the existing or original needed to be modified in order to implement these new changes.